Episode 11, Elizabeth.
I was sitting in a quiet café just off Covent Garden in
London when George slipped into the seat opposite me.
“Have you heard?” he asked without even saying hello.
“ About Miki?” I said.
“Of course.
He’s been all over the headlines.”
George looked down for a few moments and asked, “It’s been four years now.
Have you kept in touch with him?”
“I’ve emailed him every month,” I replied.
“But we’ve never spoken about politics.
You know, he likes to talk about French wine and ask my opinion on things he read in Nietzsche.”
“Same here,” George laughed dryly.
“In my last email, I recommended a good Sancerre and told him to read Marcus Aurelius instead.
Do you think it’s as bad as the papers make out?
They've been calling him a ‘strongman’; now it’s ‘dictator’ and ‘authoritarian’.
Surely they’re exaggerating...”
“What I think,” I said, “is that we should make another trip over there as soon as we can.
This time, plan it properly, stay for a while and ask Miki to see more of the country.
See if it’s really the repressive regime that the newspapers describe.
After all, the journalists writing about it haven’t even been there.
They’re publishing second-hand information from angry dissidents.”
“And if we find that it really is repressive?” George asked.
“ We’re Miki’s friends,” I told him.
“It’s our responsibility to talk to him.
I mean, we should at least try.
He’s probably surrounded by ‘yes-men’ and never hears anyone correcting or guiding him.
He needs us.
We’re all he’s got, when you think about it”
George nodded thoughtfully.
Then he brought out a newspaper clipping to show me.
It talked about a protest that would be held outside the Ankhaz embassy the following day.
The protest was called ‘End Totalitarianism In Ankhazastan’.
“I’m going to go to this protest,” George said, “and
find out exactly what people are saying about Miki.”